---
title: 现代职场着装真的让人越穿越舒服了吗？
date: 2020-06-04 11:26:26
categories: 英语
tags: 外刊阅读
description: 每日英语学习
original: false
---


<!--more-->

Bartleby

Struggling with style

Modern dress codes are easier for men than for women

Summer's arrival in the northern hemisphere brings with it a dilemma that plagues every office worker.

> hemisphere 半球
> dilemma 困境；进退两难
> plague n. 瘟疫； v. 使折磨，使苦恼

What does a casual dress code mean in practice? The happy medium between looking like Kim Kardashian or Hagrid the giant is hard to pin down.

> Hagrid the giant 哈利波特里某不修边幅
> pin down 定位

Goldman Sachs has just implemented a "flexible dress code" although the executive memo noted gnomically that "casual dress is not appropriate every day". 

> implement 施行
> executive memo 行政备忘录
> gnomically 精辟地

Besuited corporate clients might not take kindly to investment-banking advice offered by someone wearing a tank top and ripped jeans.

> besuited 穿西装的
> take to 短时间内喜欢
> tank top 背心
> ripped jeans 破洞牛仔裤

It makes sense that banking would be one of the last bastions to fall to the advance of casual workwear. 

> bastion 堡垒

You want the people who look after your money to appear sober and respectable. 

> sober 严肃的 未醉酒吸毒的

For similar reasons, bank headquarters have deliberately been built in a grandiose style to emphasise the institution's financial solidity and historical roots.

> grandiose 宏大的；宏伟的

Depositors might hesitate about handing over their savings to people working under a railway arch.

> arch 拱门

For men, the move to casual dress seems entirely positive. Few people will mourn the demise of the tie, a functionally useless garment that constricted male necks for a century.

> mourn 哀悼
> demise 消失，死亡
> garment 衣物

The tie's origins date back to the 17th century, when mercenaries hired by Louis XIII of France wore a form of cravat.

> mercenary 雇佣兵， 惟利是图的
> cravat 领巾

The modern version of the tie emerged in the 1920s and was popularised by Britain's Edward VIII who, when not flirting with the Nazis, developed the Windsor knot. 

> flirt with 与 ...调情

It became standard office wear for the next six decades. In the 1990s ties started to go out of fashion because technology titans and hedge-fund managers refused to wear them—and were rich enough to ignore social convention. 

> technology titan 科技巨头

Once, when Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, was to meet a venture capitalist, he turned up wearing his pyjamas.

> pyjamas 睡衣

The jacket, by contrast, is a much more useful garment, replete with pockets to house wallets, spectacle cases and travel passes (or, these days, mobile phones).

> house v. 装
> replete with 充满；装满
> repleted 吃饱喝足的
> spectacle 眼镜盒

So the default work garb for men, when meeting clients, is jacket, open-necked shirt and dark trousers (denim excluded).

> work garb 工作装
> denim 牛仔裤

On days without meetings, men can slob out in t-shirts (though not too garish) and jeans, and no one will think the worse of them. 

> slob n. 懒汉 v.很懒的做某事
> garish 花哨的

Arriving in shorts or without socks is another matter entirely. 
But dressing in the morning is quick and easy. Steve Jobs was famous for wearing the same outfit—black polo neck, jeans and trainers—every day.

> outfit 着装 尤其指全身

But what works well for men does not translate as easily to women.

> 好句我背

Karl Stefanovic, an Australian television presenter, wore the same blue suit every day for a year and no one noticed. 

By contrast, his female co-presenters received constant remarks on their appearance. 

> constant 时常不断的

Even the Duchess of Cambridge, Kate Middleton, gets snarky comments when she wears the same clothes twice.

> snaky comment 尖酸的评论

Women's workwear seems to have become less formal over time. A survey by Euromonitor found that sales of women's suits fell by 77% in America between 2007 and 2016.

But many women worry that they will be judged as unprofessional (unlike their male colleagues) if their clothes are deemed to be too scruffy, or too revealing. 

> be deemed to 被视为
> scruffy 破旧
> revealing 暴露

It can also be hard choosing clothes that are suitable for both indoors and out. Air-conditioning systems in offices are often designed to suit the male metabolic rate, which can cope with colder temperatures than the female body. 

> metabolic 代谢的
> cope with 适宜

The result may be that women have to bring an extra layer to wear in the building.

As for formal meetings, while men have abandoned the tie, many women feel obliged to wear high heels. 

> feel obliged to 必须要做某事

These give some women a sense of empowerment and femininity (not to mention extra height). 

> empowerment 使人有感到权力的过程
> femininity 女性气息

But in health terms, heels can seem like the Western equivalent of the ancient Chinese practice of foot-binding: bad for women's feet, ankles and backs and designed to limit their mobility. 

> in xxx terms 从xxx角度来看

Britain's Parliament held a debate after a woman was sent home from her job as a receptionist for refusing to wear high heels (it was inconclusive).

> Parliament 议会
> receptionist 前台

Companies understandably want workers who deal with the public to look respectable. 

Workers shouldn't wear clothes that wouldn't be appropriate if visiting a prudish grandmother or a child's teacher. 

> 过分规矩的

And yet no one should be expected to turn up at the office as if dressed for a wedding. The most important item to bring to work is a dose of sartorial common sense.

> a dose of 一点点
> sartorial 裁缝的