---
title: 《外交政策》重磅：中美经济大脱钩（二）
date: 2020-06-08 11:41:43
categories: 英语
tags: 外刊阅读
description: 每日英语学习
original: false
---


<!--more-->

The Great Decoupling

The only real question is how far the decoupling will go. U.S. President Donald Trump made one of his sharpest threats to date amid growing tensions with China in an interview with Fox News on Thursday. 

> amid 在...之间

"We could cut off the whole relationship," he said—a prospect that, while unlikely if not practically impossible, would send historic shockwaves through the global economy.

> prospect 情形
> shockwave 影响

Undoubtedly, most experts and officials agree, brewing trade tensions between Washington and Beijing—amplified by the coronavirus pandemic—will force some multinational companies to alter their business models， reorienting their supply chains closer to U.S. shores. 

> brewing 酝酿
> amplify 增强放大
> reorient 调整方位

Across the fractious political spectrum in Washington, Republicans and Democrats alike agree the United States should alter its business relationship with China to varying degrees. 

> fractious 易怒的，喧嚣的
> spectrum 范围， 圈子
> alike agree 一致同意

But if the fallout from the pandemic passes quickly, and especially if Trump and his protectionist "America first" agenda are defeated in the November election, the clamor to decouple from China could begin to ebb as politicians confront just how complex it is to untangle parts of the world's two largest economies. 

> fallout 影响，结果
> clamor 强烈要求，大声呼吁
> ebb 退潮，衰退
> confront 面临，面对

Not least of the problems Washington would have to confront is that China is the second-largest U.S. creditor, holding more than $1 trillion in U.S. debt.

Either way, the looming reshaping of the sinews of the world economy will have untold implications, from tearing up business models to remaking entire industries. 

> looming 隐约可见的
> sinew 支柱力量，肌腱
> untold 不可估量
> tear up 撕开

But it could also have unforeseeable geopolitical consequences, especially regarding China, which over the course of four decades has grown from minnow to whale under the auspices of a tight-knit global economic system, led by deepening trade and investment ties with the West. What happens if that gets torn apart?

> under the auspices of 在...的帮助下
> tight-knit 紧密交织
> tear apart  撕开

"There's enough there by way of trend lines to suggest we're entering into a new period that turns on its head the widely-held assumptions about the U.S.-China relationship from the time that Deng Xiaoping returned to leadership in the late 1970s and rebooted China for the subsequent 40 years," Kevin Rudd, a former Australian prime minister and well-known China scholar, told Foreign Policy.

> turn on head sth. 扭转...
> reboot 重新启动

He worries about, if not a straight replay of the first Cold War, which featured bigger nuclear arsenals and proxy wars around the globe, at least Cold War 1.5. 

> arsenal 武器库，军火库
> proxy war 代理人战争

"It's at that sort of inflection that could spell the reemergence of competing blocs, as during the Cold War. 

> spell 致使
> reemergence ...重新出现
> bloc 集团， 阵营

China is already well into the creation of its own economic sphere with its ambitious Belt and Road Initiative, which seeks to link economies across Asia, Africa, and parts of Europe to Beijing. 

> Belt and Road Initiatve 一带一路倡议

China and the United States are on track to develop dual, and dueling, technology to drive the next big economic transformations, especially in mobile phones.

> be on track to = is doing sth.
> dual 二元
> duel 斗争，对抗

Now, Trump administration officials talk of rolling out a concept called the "Economic Prosperity Network" of like-minded countries, organizations, and businesses. 

> roll out 搞出来的
> prosperity 繁荣

The aim is in part to convince U.S. firms to extricate themselves from China and instead partner with members of the so-called network to reduce U.S. economic dependence on Beijing—seen as a key national security vulnerability. 

> extricate 使摆脱
> partner with 
> vulnerability 薄弱

If a U.S. manufacturing company can't move jobs from China back to the United States, for example, it could at least move those jobs to another more U.S.-friendly country, such as Vietnam or India.

"Safeguarding America's assets is one of the core pillars, supply chains are a big part of that," Keith Krach, Trump's undersecretary of state for economic growth, energy, and the environment, told Foreign Policy. 

> pillar 支柱

"Supply chains are super complex. Sometimes they go down 10, 20 levels and I think it's essential to understand where those critical areas are, where the critical bottlenecks are," he added.

> bottleneck 瓶颈

How will Beijing respond? China, in some ways, has been pursuing its own form of decoupling for more than a decade, since it launched a campaign to develop more advanced technologies at home and rely less on U.S. and other Western suppliers, noted Ashley Feng of the Center for a New American Security. 

And many Chinese firms have proved adept at surviving a rupture with the United States—Huawei, for example, once relied on U.S. firms for many of the components of its smartphones but now does without. 

> adept 熟练的， 擅长的
> rupture 突然决裂

Still, China's quest to bolster its own capacity for innovation and to become a leader in advanced technologies relies on easy access to firms and researchers around the world, and it doesn't want to see those connections severed entirely. 

> quest 寻求，探求
> bolster 增强，激励
> sever 与...断绝关系

At the same time, with an already-slowing economy hammered by the pandemic this year, China will likely do what it can to ease the economic tensions with the United States—like trying to appease Trump by adhering to the goals of the phase-one trade deal reached in January, for example.

> hammer 受...打击
> appease 安抚
> adhere 遵循

"The economy has been deeply damaged by the coronavirus crisis and, prior to that, damaged
somewhat by the trade war," Rudd said. "So I think the predisposition of Beijing at present to try to restabilize that economic relationship because China is still not strong enough to sail alone."

> predisposition n.（行为方式的）倾向；易患某疾病的倾向（体质）


