---
title: 《外交政策》重磅：中美经济大脱钩（上）
date: 2020-06-05 11:05:27
categories: 英语
tags: 外刊阅读
description: 每日英语学习
original: false
---


<!--more-->

The Great Decoupling

Washington is pressing for a post-pandemic decoupling from China. 

> be pressing for 急切的去说服做某事
> post-pandemic 后疫情时代

But the last big economic split brought on two world wars and a depression. What's in store this time?

The U.S. ambassador on the spot in an Asian economic powerhouse put it bluntly in a cable to the secretary of state in Washington: Don't cut them off. 

> on the spot in 置身于
> powerhouse 精力充沛的人
> bluntly 直言不讳地

Give them some "economic elbow-room," or they'll be forced to carve out an economic empire of their own by force. 

> elbow-room 足够的活动空间
> carve out 开凿

But Washington was in the grip of economic nationalists battling a historic economic downturn. 

> be in the grip of something 处于某种困境
> economic downturn 经济下行

The White House, consequently, was deaf to the Ambassador Joseph Grew's pleas from Tokyo in 1935.

> someone be deaf to someone 对某人充耳不闻

Within a few years, the United States ramped up economic pressure on Japan, culminating in a trade and oil embargo. 

> ramp up 提高，使增加
> culminate 以...告终，最终达到
> embargo 贸易禁令；禁运

Six years after Grew wrote his dispatch, the two countries were engaged in total war.

> dispatch n. 报道，电讯 v. 派出

Today, American policymakers are consumed by the economic and geopolitical confrontation with another Asian heavyweight. 

> someone be consumed by 全神贯注于
> geopolitical 地缘上的
> confrontation 对峙 


And, as in the 1930s, economic decoupling is all the rage.

> be all the rage 风靡一时

For the more hawkish members of the Trump administration, undoing 40 years of ever-closer economic relations with China and rolling back U.S. reliance on Chinese factories, firms, and investment was always the end game of the endless trade war—even before the coronavirus pandemic turbocharged Washington's desire to disentangle itself from what many view as a dangerous economic bear hug. 

> undo 把结解开
> roll back ... 降低... 的影响力；开倒车
> turbocharge 涡轮增压 使强大快乐兴奋
> disentangle 使解脱出来
> tangle 纠缠

Now, lawmakers and administration officials are mulling a raft of measures to cleave parts of the two largest economies in the world: Bans on a wide variety of sensitive exports, additional tariffs on Chinese goods, forced reshoring of U.S. companies, even pulling out of the World Trade Organization altogether, which is seen by some as facilitating China's so-called economic imperialism.

> mull 酝酿
> cleave 分裂，分开
> raft 木筏 a raft of 大量
> reshore 征兆
> pull out of 撤出退出
> imperialism 扩张主义

It's not just economic ties between China and the United States that are in danger. 

Europe, too, is increasingly talking of rolling back the deep trade and investment ties it has developed with Beijing in recent decades (even as it is cutting trade ties with itself, as the United Kingdom leaves the European Union). 

Other countries are also pulling up the drawbridges—all leery that today's unprecedented level of economic integration has gone too far, bringing more pain and less gain.

> drawbridge 吊桥
> leery 怀有戒心的，戒备的
> unprecedented 史无前例的

The threat of a great decoupling is a potentially historic break, an interruption perhaps only comparable to the sudden sundering of the first huge wave of globalization in 1914, when deeply intertwined economies such as Britain and Germany, and later the United States, threw themselves into a barrage of self-destruction and economic nationalism that didn't stop for 30 years. 

> A is comparable to B 能比得上A的只有 B
> intertwine 紧密相关
> barrage 连珠炮似的批评

This time, though, decoupling is driven not by war but by peacetime populist urges, exacerbated by a global coronavirus pandemic that has shaken decades of faith in the wisdom of international supply chains and the virtues of a global economy.

> populist 平民主义的
> exacerbate 使恶化，使加重
> virtue 好处   