---
title: 阿桑奇的网络无政府主义
date: 2020-04-23 12:20:12
categories: 英语
tags: 外刊阅读
description: 每日英语学习
original: false
---

<!--more-->

JULIAN ASSANGE - ANARCHIST OR ACTIVIST?

> anarchist 无政府主义者
> activist 激进主义者

It was only a matter of time, wasn’t it? After a long publicity hiatus, brought on by his self-imposed exile inside the Ecuadorian embassy in London, Julian Assange has found his way back into the headlines. 

> hiatus 间断 停滞
> bring on 使发作 导致
> exile 流放
> has found his way back into 找出回...的路

Whistleblowing has been growing in influence since the 1970s. 

> 水门 越战

Yet over the past decade or more, Assange and the WikiLeaks organisation he founded, have turned whistleblowing into something akin to a career choice for some young adults.

> akin to 类似于

WikiLeaks became famous - or infamous, depending on your worldview - for providing an unprecedented platform for people who wanted to leak sensitive secrets.

> infamous 臭名昭著
> unprecedented 前所未有的
> platform 平台

Their work was glamorised by the publicity WikiLeaks generated.

> glamorised 美化

Some commentators argue that Julian Assange and his colleagues are champions of free speech. Others see them as defenders of press freedom. 

> champion 捍卫者

Still others claim that the WikiLeaks crew are making a stand in support of the true culture of the internet and the world wide web. There are good reasons to be wary of all three arguments.

> make a stand 表达立场
> be wary of 小心谨慎

In any society, true freedom of speech requires that citizens take responsibility for what they say, or publish.

Acclaiming individual rights without recognising concomitant social responsibilities is the beginning of anarchism.

> concomitant 伴随的 附带的
> anarchism 无政府主义

This has been one of the arguments - a persuasive one, I think - for tighter regulation of social media companies.

They want the freedom to operate as news curators, while retaining a free-wheeling cowboy status when it comes to responsibility for the content of their sites. 

> curator 博物馆长 
> free-wheeling 随心所欲的

They cannot be allowed to have their proverbial profit cake while happily scoffing it down.

> proverbial 众所周知的
> scoff 狼吞虎咽

In the case of online publishing houses like WikiLeaks, publication of material is accompanied by claims to moral authority. This is arguably the highest form of authority.

To make a credible claim to it, publishers must be seen to be above reproach.

> reproach 责备 批评

This means, among other things, that they must allow themselves to be measured by some yardstick beyond their own collective conscience. 

> yardstick 衡量标准 准绳

Julian Assange and his crew have demonstrated no accountability except to their own internal culture and their individual consciences. 

> demostrated 证明
> accountability 责任

In this they have diluted any potential authority as a voice for free speech among the wider population, most members of which live not so much in subservience to but with respect for social structures.

> diluted 稀释 冲淡
> subservience 有利于
> not so much ... but to 与其说 不如说

WikiLeaks also likes to challenge systems of governance without offering any suggestions as to how they might be improved.

It attacks not just abuses of the system - as was the case during Watergate, for example - but the system itself. 

In this it has possibly revealed itself to be more about cyber-anarchism than cyber-activism. 

> cyber-... 网络xx主义

Activists like to promote an alternative, improved view of society. Anarchists take no such pains; they seem more content to undermine the current system and hope that something better emerges after the revolution.

> take pains 小心翼翼
> content 满足
> undermine 破坏

Julian Assange took to calling himself a journalist a few years ago. His spokespersons were throwing this epithet his way again today, as they spoke out against his arrest.

> take to doing 喜欢 ...
> epithet 别称 绰号 

In the beginning, the WikiLeaks co-founder may have found the journalist label useful in establishing credibility.

"Computer hacker" doesn’t carry the same weight, after all, In recent years, Assange has used his aspirations to journalism as political coverage against espionage charges in the US, where freedom of the press is held in almost sacred regard. 

> aspiration 渴望
> coverage 掩护
> espionage charge 间谍指控
> sacred 神圣的

Yet he seems ignorant of the fact that one key tenet of journalism is that reporters should never allow themselves to become the story.

> tenet 宗旨

Now, as news organisations increasingly erect online paywalls and one-person cyber-jockeys cash in on clickbait advertising, purists see WikiLeaks as a body of crusaders for original web culture.

> cyber-jockey 网上上班的人
> one-person cyber-jockeys 自媒体
> purist 理想主义者
> crusader 十字军战士

Yet its most ardent supporters either can’t see or won’t acknowledge that by their actions groups like Wikileaks make the case for even higher levels of government internet regulation. 

> ardent 激烈的
> make the case for 为...提供理由

This would be supported by many groups outside of government, including businesses who fear that WikiLeaks and its kind may turn on them next.

> outside of 美语之外 英语里“of”很少 