---
title: 巴黎圣母院重建：不像你想得这么简单（上）
date: 2020-04-21 11:49:37
categories: 英语
tags: 外刊阅读
description: 每日英语学习
original: false
---

<!--more-->

How to restore Notre Dame — without falsifying history

> falsify 篡改

What has burned is now lost to the past and cannot be simply recovered or replicated. Any attempt to restore the structure must acknowledge that.

> replicate 复制

After the devastating fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris on Monday, French President Emmanuel Macron promised to rebuild the church, a promise followed by an outpouring of pledges of money from private individuals and companies, in France and elsewhere. 

> outpouring 迸发 喷涌
> pledge: promise 

While long overdue and very welcome, it is also a reminder that it too often takes a catastrophic accident like this to elicit the funding to preserve artistic treasures like Notre Dame, a tendency that unfortunately makes such tragedies seem necessary to save historic monuments. 

> long overdue 逾期过久
> catastrophic 灾难性的
> elicit 引出 引导出 
>> elicit sth. form sb.

> monument 纪念碑 纪念堂 历史遗迹

Equally troubling is Macron’s intimation that we can just “rebuild” the church. 

> intimation 暗示 迹象 宣示 官宣

Such simplistic bravado speaks volumes about our own disposable culture, which apparently allows us to dispose of, recycle, replace or, indeed, clone anything. 

> bravado 逞能
> speaks volumes about 充分表明 不言自明
> disposable 可丢弃的

But what has burned at Notre Dame is now lost to history and cannot simply be recovered or replicated — any attempt to restore the structure must acknowledge that.

So, after the debris is cleared and the damage assessed, what is next? 

> debry 废墟

First, work must be done to arrest further degradation. 

> arrest 阻止...发生
> degradation 恶化

The building was already undergoing urgent conservation, because the interventions of 19th-century restorers Eugène-Emmanuel Viollet-le-Duc and Jean Baptiste Lassus — including the spire they rebuilt — were causing damage. 

> intervention 干涉

The stones they had replaced in the walls and on the flying buttresses were also eroding at a faster pace than the 12th-century stones they had left in place, so the building’s structural integrity was compromised.

> flying buttress 飞浮壁
> erode 侵蚀 损害
> integrity 完整性
> be compromised 妥协 打折扣

In the short term, Notre Dame must be stabilized against further degradation, and a new roof will be required so that the stone vaults that cover the nave of the church do not remain exposed to the elements and susceptible to further degradation.

> vault 穹顶 保险库
> nave 教堂正厅
> the elements 天气 坏天气
> susceptible 易感染的 易受影响的

Only after this basic work is well underway should any consideration be given to replacing the 19th-century spire, which dramatically collapsed Monday. 

The restoration ahead raises questions about what history to preserve. 

The spire that stood on Notre Dame on Monday dated to 1859 and replaced a 13th-century spire that was dismantled in 1786.

> dismantle 拆除

It was not a copy of the medieval spire, for which there were no extant plans.

> extant 尚存的

Rather, this neo-Gothic fantasy’s artistic merit lay in its conveyance of 19th-century values concerning the unified French nation based on a rationalized form of medieval architecture.

> conveyance 承载

While that design could be reproduced today, why should it?

This line of thought quickly spirals into endless possibilities for a Disney-like creative reconstruction of the past. 

Should the 19th-century techniques that were employed to build it also be reproduced? If an earlier spire is to be re-created, why not make a spire truer to the first spire at Notre Dame? 

Which of its nearly nine centuries should be privileged? What should be done about the fact that much of the original building was lost in the French Revolution?

Should its pre-revolutionary state be reconstituted, as well?  Should we also remove the electric lights in the building? 

Any of these fantastic possibilities would constitute a false reproduction of history, for they would nevertheless be done with contemporary techniques and bear the date of the year in which they were made — presumably 2024, the time Macron has promised to complete the reconstruction.