---
title: 巴黎圣母院修复：不像你想得这么简单（下）
date: 2020-04-22 12:43:50
categories: 英语
tags: 外刊阅读
description: 每日英语学习
original: false
---

While some cultures and countries, such as Japan, do rebuild their historic monuments anew in the style of the past, they prioritize the endurance of the craft over the permanence of the material and have regulated the techniques for such reconstructions. 

> anew adv. 重新
> prioritize a over b a的优先级胜于b
> craft 工艺

Western culture typically places greater value on the original material, which is why people pay hundreds of millions of dollars for an authentic da Vinci rather than a good copy of the Mona Lisa.

> place value on sth. = focus sth.
> authentic 真品的 真实可信的

Concerning Notre Dame, we must preserve its past as it is to carry its value forward transparently to the future.

> transparently 透明地

The 1964 “Venice Charter,” devised by the International Council on Monuments and Sites, established guidelines for conservation and restoration, asserting, “The intention in conserving and restoring monuments is to safeguard them no less as works of art than as historical evidence. … Replacements of missing parts must integrate harmoniously with the whole, but at the same time must be distinguishable from the
original so that restoration does not falsify the artistic or historic evidence.”

> devise 倡议
> no less as ... than as ... 既..又...
> integrate with... 

Thus, if the spire is to be replaced, it should be built in a contemporary style that both harmonizes with the extant monument and also clearly distinguishes itself as a product of our time. 

> contemporary 现代的

And so, yes, such a position might translate into an architectural competition among the greatest architects of today — why not Rem Koolhaas, Kengo Kuma or Jean Nouvel — to create a spire that would at once acknowledge the past in respecting the proportions and style of Notre Dame while also articulating our own way of doing things? 

> translate into 意味着 mean
> articulate 发生 表达

This may sound radical, but it would offer greater transparency and, therefore, greater value, to every period of history that the monument embodies.

> radical 激进
> transparency 透明性
> embody 体现

Fortunately for the nostalgic, there are many examples of the 19th-century Notre Dame — a model of the building in 1843 is displayed in the Museum of French Monuments at the Trocadero in Paris, millions of photographs exist in books and online, and it could be re-created and experienced using augmented- and virtual-reality technology.

> nostalgic 怀旧派的
> augmented-reality 现实增强
> virtual-reality 虚拟现实

But there is no sense in rebuilding its earlier history in the 21st century, when what we prize about Notre Dame’s history is that what is there really was made in a different cultural milieu.

> milieu 氛围 文化环境

Complicating the forthcoming restoration, however, is the fact that Notre Dame is a living, breathing, functioning monument that requires constant maintenance, even under ordinary circumstances. 

> forthcoming 即将到来的

Indeed, on a daily basis, Notre Dame receives up to 50,000 visitors from all over the world, while also being an integral part of the city of Paris and its inhabitants that holdsdaily services for Catholics.

> an integral part of ...不可分割的一部分

Before the fire, the way the building was being used did not work well for anyone; an unending stream of tourists was funneled through the outer aisles (in fact, I used to call it the “discothèque”because of the close quarters, dark interior and all the blinking lights from camera flashes), while the devout could sit in the nave near the altar, although the services were largely overwhelmed by the crowds around them.

> funnel 漏斗
> aisles 游客通道
> discotheque = disco
> quarter = room
> devout 虔诚的
> altar 祭坛
> be overwhelmed 被盖过

Surely the heat and humidity generated by the crowds in the building were not good for the building’s structure, either. 

So this moment could be the opportunity to reconcile the different needs of the devout and of the tourists in a better way.

> reconcile 调和

As Notre Dame now benefits from a surplus of new funding for its restoration, those in charge must be careful not to change fundamental aspects of it.

The monument should remain a living part of the city and not become isolated from it by a barrier and tickets that would turn it into a museum. 

Moreover, the restoration of Notre Dame must under no circumstances become an opportunity to impose a false history on the cathedral at the expense of what is extant. 

Something along these lines recently played out at Chartres Cathedral, which sustained a decade of restoration that imposed a 21st-century interpretation of its pre-modern interior, at the loss of its many 13th-through 19th-century layers.

The Venice Charter clearly states that a unity of style is not the goal of a restoration — the past should not be fabricated to align with people’s imaginations or expectations of it.

This is what some call “creative iconoclasm.” Whatever is done should be easily identifiable as differentfrom the older parts and clearly documented as such to allow future generations to understand the past on their own terms. Notre Dame was the first building constructed entirely in the Gothic style without any significant interruptions, from 1160 to about 1340. It remains one of only a few extant monuments in Paris that display architecture and architectural sculpture from the 12th through the 14th centuries relatively unaltered and legible as such.

Its 19th-century restoration, limited mostly to the upper levels, parts of the exterior and the treasury, should be preserved as examples of that period’s values and practices. Because there are so few examples like Notre Dame left in the very city that generated this architecture in the Middle Ages, this particularly important and historic cultural and political capital, we must work to preserve its historical integrity while maintaining its functionality as much as possible. Never simple, the past is instead messy, complex, and difficult to understand and interpret. In
our drive to control an ever more unwieldy and unstable present, what will it take to preserve our past for the future?