---
title: 无法实现高利润的独角兽可能只是带着帽子的矮脚马
date: 2020-06-02 11:28:46
categories: 英语
tags: 外刊阅读
description: 每日英语学习
original: false
---


<!--more-->

The trouble with tech unicorns

Tech’s new stars have it all—except a path to high profits

Millions of users, cool brands and charismatic bosses are not enough

> charismatic 富有人格魅力的

Investors often describe the world of business in terms of animals, such as bears, bulls, hawks, doves and dogs.

Right now, mere ponies are being presented as unicorns: privately held tech firms worth over $1bn that are supposedly strong and world-beating—miraculous almost. 

> mere  仅仅，只不过，不超过
> pony 一种矮小的马
> world-beating 全世界一流的
> miraculous 奇迹般的，超自然的

Next month Uber will raise some
$10bn in what may turn out to be this year’s biggest initial public offering (ipo).

It will be America’s third-
biggest-ever tech ipo, after Alibaba and Facebook. 

Airbnb and WeWork could follow Lyft, which has already floated, and Pinterest, which was set to do so as The Economist went to press. 

> set to do 很可能做某事

In China, an ipo wave that began last year rumbles on. 

> rumble 持续低沉的声音
> ramble 闲庭信步
> mumble 乌鲁鲁
> mumble jumble 混乱，有的没的

Thanks to fashionable products and armies of users, these firms have a total valuation in the hundreds of billions of dollars. 

They and their venture-capital (vc) backers are rushing to sell shares at high prices to mutual funds and pension schemes run for ordinary people. 

> pension scheme 养老金计划

There is, however, a problem with the unicorns: their business models.

As we report this week, a dozen unicorns that have listed, or are likely to, posted combined losses of $14bn last year.

Their cumulative losses are $47bn. 

Their services, from ride-hailing to office rental, are often deeply discounted in order to supercharge revenue growth. 

> supercharge 增压方式提高发动机的功率

The justification for this is the Silicon Valley doctrine of “blitzscaling” in order to conquer “winner-takes-all” markets— or in plain English, conducting a high-speed land grab in the hope of finding gold.

> blizscalling 闪电扩张
> doctrine 一组信奉的理念

Yet some unicorns lack the economies of scale and barriers to entry that their promoters proclaim. 

> proclaim 宣布，公布，声明

At the same time, tighter regulation will constrain their freedom to move fast and break things. 

> constrain 力劝，强迫某人做某事，限制

Investors should demand lower prices in the ipos, or stay away. 

Tech entrepreneurs and their backers need to rethink what has become an unsustainable approach to building firms and commercialising ideas.

Today’s unicorn-breeding industry would not have been possible 25 years ago. 

> breed 升值繁育，饲养，养成，培训，滋生，导致
> idol-breeding industry

In 1994 only $6bn flowed into vc funds, which doled out cheques in the single-digit millions. 

> dole 分配，发出，零星的给出

Before Amazon staged its ipo in 1997 it had raised a total of only $10m.

Three things changed. Growing fast became easier thanks to cloud
computing, smartphones and social media, which let startups spread rapidly around the world. Low interest rates left investors chasing returns. 

> stratup 初创企业

And a tiny elite of superstar firms, including Google, Facebook and China’s Alibaba and Tencent, proved that huge markets, high profits and natural monopolies, along with limited physical assets and light regulation, were the secret to untold riches. 

> secret to untold riches 富人们未说的秘密
> along with 还有

Suddenly tech became all about applying this magic formula to as many industries as possible, using piles of money to speed up the process.