---
title: 斯里兰卡连环爆炸，社交媒体遭禁用
date: 2020-04-25 12:49:45
categories: 英语
tags: 外刊阅读
description: 每日英语学习
original: false
---

<!--more-->

The Sri Lankan government’s decision to block all social media sites in the wake of Sunday’s deadly attacks is emblematic of just how much US-based technology companies’ failure to rein in misinformation, extremism and incitement to violence has come to outweigh the claimed benefits of social media.

> emblematic 可当标志的
> incitement 煽动

Sri Lanka’s government moved to block Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram – all owned by Facebook – on Sunday out of concern that “false news reports … spreading through social media” could lead to violence. The services will be suspended until investigations into the blasts that killed more than 200 people are concluded, the government said. Non-Facebook social media services including YouTube and Viber have also been suspended, but Facebook and WhatsApp are the dominant platforms in the country.

For Facebook in particular, Sri Lanka’s decision represents a remarkable comedown from a time, less than three years ago, when Facebook was viewed as “one of the world’s most important emergency response institutions”, as Wired magazine wrote at the time.

The social network’s vast global scale, its intricate mapping of social relationships, its algorithmically triggered “safety check” product and its suite of tools enabling the rapid dissemination of information and live video were at the time viewed as a potential boon to global disaster response.

Survivors could use Facebook to mark themselves safe; governments could use Facebook to broadcast live updates; and NGOs and locals could use Facebook to coordinate relief efforts.

But the same features that make Facebook so useful have also made it incredibly dangerous: misinformation travels just as fast as verified information, if not faster.

Recent weeks have provided numerous examples of just how damaging that can be in the aftermath of a crisis. The Christchurch gunman who shot and killed 50 Muslim worshippers, used Facebook Live to broadcast his attack, effectively weaponizing the platform. Facebook and YouTube both failed to prevent the video from spreading.

Just this week, a YouTube feature designed to curb misinformation ended up creating it, when the platform appended a panel with information about the September 11 terrorist attacks to livestreams of the Notre Dame fire, creating the false impression that the fire was linked to terrorism

In Sri Lanka, misinformation spread through social media has been linked to deadly mob violence before. In March 2018, the government blocked Facebook, WhatsApp and other internet platforms amid hardline Buddhist violence against Muslims, some of it fuelled by hate speech and false rumors spread on social media. At the time, the Sri Lankan government harshly criticized Facebook for its failure to properly police hate speech in local languages.