---
title: 你的焦虑，真的能够听Chill解决吗？
date: 2020-04-20 11:31:12
categories: 英语
tags: 外刊阅读
description: 每日英语学习
original: false
---

<!--more-->



Against Chill: Apathetic Music to Make Spreadsheets To

> chill-out music 放松情绪的音乐
> chill 也是也是一种态度
> apathetic 冷漠的，不关心的
> spreadsheets 电子表格

Last fall, the students in one of my writing classes alerted me to a
wildly popular YouTube channel, run by an organization called
Chillhop Music. 

> alert me to 而非 introduce to me 

The channel's description was gentle, unassuming:"We hope you enjoy these chill lofi hip hop tunes while studying / chilling / working," it read. 

> lofi low-Fidelity 低保真的

More than 2.2 million people had subscribed; several thousand were listening at that moment.

We called up the channel on the classroom computer.

> call up 展示

The video featured an animated raccoon wearing a peach hoodie and drinking a cup of coffee, in a dorm room strewn with generational signifiers: houseplants, seltzer, a turntable. Every once in a while, the raccoon started typing or casually flicked its tail. Benign electronic music played.

> feature 主演
> animated raccoon 动画浣熊
> be strewn with 散落着
> seltzer seltzer 某旧式气泡矿泉水
> turntable 唱片转盘
> flick 弹
> benign: gentle and kind

I found that the song evaded precise description—perhaps by design—so I free-associated on my notepad: koi pond, medical-grade marijuana, boutique hotel, hot-stone massage, European airplane, cool dentist. 

> evade 刻意回避
> koi pond 锦鲤池子
> marijuana 大麻
> boutique hotel 精品酒店
> massage 按摩
> 欧洲航班便宜且服务好

These days, to describe someone as "chill" is to propose that they're slightly apathetic, but in a delightfully easygoing way. 

The rise of chill as an aspirational state suggests that perhaps the best thing to feel is not much at all. The song continued. Maybe it ended. I don't know. "Do you enjoy this?" I asked my students.

> aspirational 有雄心壮志的；一种令人向往的

They found the question silly if not fatuous—the music wasn't really for liking, in the traditional sense.

> fatuous = silly

The music wasn't for anything. It merely existed to facilitate and sustain a mood, which in turn might enable a task: studying, folding laundry, making preadsheets, idly browsing the Internet.

Spotify presently classifies chill as a genre, and there are an incredible number of playlists devoted to insuring a chill experience.

> genre 类型题材（文学 绘画 艺术）

Chill Hits. Chill Tracks. Chillin' on a Dirt Road. Chill Vibes. Evening Chill. Chill as Folk. Pop Chillout. 

Interestingly, as a musical ethos, chill has also eked its way onto the pop charts: SoundCloud rap, one of the most popular and lucrative genres of the decade, is marked by distortion, low fidelity, and a slurred vocal delivery that seems plainly indebted to anti-anxiety medication.

> ethos 理念
> eke 增加；勉强维持
> lucrative 赚钱的
> distortion 扭曲变形
> slurred 发音不清
> indebted 欠...

SoundCloud rap is hardly as limp or as purposefully benign as Chillhop's study music, but the genres do share a sort of practiced nonchalance, a heavy dedication to chill.

> limp 柔软的
> nonchalance 冷漠的

Although I recognize the utility of listening to non-distracting study music, I nonetheless find it disheartening to see art being reconfigured, over and over again, as a tool for productivity—and then, when the work is finally done, as a tool for coming down from the work.

> disheartening 令人沮丧的

It's especially disconcerting to see the practice of active listening denigrated, dismissed, or ignored.

> disconcerting 令人不安的
> denigrate 诋毁

Background music is hardly a new development, but, previously, these sorts of experiences were mostly relegated to elevators and waiting rooms; now the groundless consumption of music has become omnipresent. 

> be relegated to 被分配为
> groundless 无理由地
> omnipresent 无所不在的

In a 2015 press release, Spotify declared itself "obsessed with figuring out how to bring music into every part of your life, wherever you are, whatever you're doing, whatever your mood."

> obsess 沉迷于

The idea of purposeful listening—which is to say, merely listening—is becoming increasingly discordant with the way that music is sold to us.

> be discordant with 与...不一致 

The German philosopher Josef Pieper, in his signal essay "Leisure: The Basis of Culture," from 1952, quotes the poet and critic Charles Baudelaire: "One must work, if not from taste then at least from despair. For, to reduce everything to a single truth: work is less boring than pleasure." 

Pieper argues that Westerners in spiritual decline can't "acquiesce to being," but, instead, must "overwork as a means of self-escape, as a way of trying to justify our existence."

> acquiesce 接受

It makes sense that, in 2019, as we grow collectively more uncomfortable with our own quiet, inefficient sentience, we have also come to neglect the more contemplative pursuits, including mindful listening, listening for pleasure, listening to be challenged, and even listening to have a very good time while doing nothing else at all.

> sentience 感知能力
> contemplative 深思的