---
title: 简单粗暴的石油策略可能让美国搬起石头砸了自己的脚
date: 2020-06-03 11:13:22
categories: 英语
tags: 外刊阅读
description: 每日英语学习
original: false
---


<!--more-->

Crude tactics

> crude 天然的；未提炼的；粗俗粗鲁的；粗陋的，粗糙的
> crude 可以和 rough 相类比应用
> tactic 手段，策略

America wants to challenge rogue petrostates

> rogue n. 流氓， 恶棍 ； adj. 不讲道理， 蛮横的
> petrostate 石油国家

But it cannot squeeze Iran and Venezuela without risking higher oil prices for its own consumers

> squeeze 挤， 压榨
> Venezuela 委内瑞拉

America has been a superpower for decades. As a superpower in global energy markets, however, it is barely an adolescent.

> adolescent 介于儿童与成人之间的青年人


As recently as 2015 it was illegal to export oil. Within ten years the shale boom has transformed it into the world’s biggest producer of crude.

> shale 页岩

No longer must it tiptoe around regimes whose policies it detests but whose oil it craves.

> tiptoe  n.脚趾尖；v. 踮着脚尖走路
> regime 政权
> detest 厌恶
> crave 渴望

President Donald Trump touts an age of “energy dominance”. 

> tout v. 用令人生厌的持续的方式来试图让人们接受或购买某物

He has put its burgeoning energy prowess to the test with sanctions on Iran and Venezuela. 

> burgeon v. 发芽，萌发；某事物的发展迅速
> prowess n. 高超的技艺；非凡的才能、专长
> sanction n. 制裁

But dreams of dominance are running into the realities of energy markets.

> run into 撞上 

On April 22nd the American administration announced that no further waivers would be granted to countries importing oil from Iran. 

> waive  v. 放弃 
> waiver也就是授予你豁免某项要求的文书

“We are going to zero,” declared Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state.

Waivers to eight countries, granted in November, were due to expire on May 2nd. 

Even so, investors were shocked that no exceptions were allowed. 

According to the state department, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and America will help meet demand. 

But Brent crude, the international benchmark, quickly topped $74, the highest level in nearly six months.

The Trump administration is right to make a fuss about America’s oil boom.

> make a fuss 对某人某事物过于注意；太把……当回事了

According to the International Energy Agency, by 2021 the country may be a
net exporter of oil. This would be a stunning reversal. 

> stunning adj. 了不起的；出色的；令人震惊的；重大的
> reversal 逆转

Not long ago, notes Amy Myers Jaffe of the Council on Foreign Relations, a think-tank, oil imports were the largest cause of America’s current-account deficit.

But it is wrong to think it can bring about dramatic change in Iran and Venezuela without risking dramatic spikes in petrol prices. 

America’s government does not control its oil industry. Oil firms are backed by investors whose interests do not necessarily align with those of the president. 

Nor can it control the world’s many buyers and sellers of crude. American production accounts for about 15% of global output, a striking increase from what it was but still a small share of total supply. 

> striking adj. 引人注目的

Complicating matters, investors have struggled to anticipate the Trump administration’s actions. Rather than stabilise oil markets, America has been as likely to do the opposite.